# ProjectLab
Lab for Final Project for CISC187

### Task 1: Both Sports Function

The structure provided by the problem for the player arrays clearly had a hash-like personality with key-value pairs. My function takes in two parameters being two different vectors of different sports and their athletes. Due to this I elected to make a vector that contained a struct that provided the traits of first name, last name, and team. I first elected to create a temporary hashtable that contained the key-value pairs being a players name as a string and a boolean value marking true, indicating the person exists. I then iterate through every player on the second list, conjoining their first and last name, if they are in the hashtable I created then they are a player in both sports, and thus are added to the vector both, returning multi-sport athletes. This process has two independent for loops in which the first for loop iterates through every element in the first array (N), and the second loop every element in the second array (M). In doing so I meet the requested time complexity O(N+M).

### Task 2: Return The Missing Integer Function

Knowing that the provided array is intended to value from 0 to n we can utilize this to ensure an extremely simple and efficient way to find the missing integer. The classical summation formula relies on an iteration beginning at 1 and ending at n. Since we start at 0 we can look at our array as always having the correct "size" since 0 isn't actually considered in summation. An example being an array [0, 1, 2, 4], using the formula n(n+1)/2 where n is the size of array (4) and gives an expected sum of 10. Our actual sum is 7, subtracting the two gives 3, which is our missing value. Similarly, if the missing value is 0, we will return 0 because that is what the difference will be. By using this logic we only ever have to iterate through our passed in vector once, maintaining our goal time complexity of O(N).

### Task 3: Stock Prediction Function

For this function we want to find the most profitable time to buy and sell stocks based off a predicted/forseen array of daily trade values. By setting 2 placeholder values we can utilize a single for loop to find the answer for this problem. The potential profit is calculated by subtracting our lowest found stock price from our current iteration. We compare this potential profit to our currently tracked highest profit and the greater of the two decides which is more profitable, we track our lowest stock price through each iteration as well. In such a case, imagine we have the array [5, 6, 8, 11, 2], well while 2 is the lowest stock price, we cannot retroactively sell it at 11 after buying at 2, since it appears later in the array. We can track that our lowest and initial/buy price is 5, and each iteration we will replace our profit with the next difference between i and 5 until we eventually see that 11 is the best time to sell and 5 remains the lowest price to buy at. The function tracks this properly and gives us an O(N) time complexity. 

### Task 4: Highest Product of Any 2 Numbers

For this function rather than making nested loops for O(N^2) time complexity, we can make use of variable trackers that a single for loop can compare to. In this case, since negative numbers are considered, I do not only want to track my two most positive numbers, but potentially my two most negative as well. The initial variable are declared in such a way that they can still accurately reflect what the greatest, lowest, and second of each are in even a 2 element array. Due to this consideration our for loop begins at index 2. The current element in the for loop is compared to each of these variables to see if it meets any of the criteria to be the new greatest or lowest value. The two separate if statements ensures a value that is the new greatest can also be evaluated for being the new lowest. Much like previous problems, I use the max function to return the greatest between the two greatest and two lowest values, in the case that the two most negative values have a positive product greater than the two most positive.

### Task 5: Sorting Temp Low -> High Function

Noting the wording of this task allows a unique approach to it. We are told that only healthy temps are taken, ranging from 97.0 to 99.0, and that any difference between temps only varies by one tenth. This will give us 21 different temperatures total. Due to this I can make a hash table that hashes the occurrences of a temperature to itself. In my for loop you may note that I multiply my iteration var i, by .1, and that it's max val will be 20, this is to translate the iteration to the degree + it's tenth that I'm searching for. I then use my hash table and see if that value resides in it, and if it does I push it onto my ordered vector j amount of times, where j is the number of occurrences it has in the value portion of the table. This allows for some dynamic cases, that all maintain O(N) time complexity. For example, lets say only 1 temperature happens, well my first for loop just marks it in the table as the only key and its occurrences as the value. The outer for loop runs a fixed 21 times and the inner loop run N times total through all outer iterations, since the sum of occurrences must equal the size of the input array giving a complexity O(21 + N). Mixing and matching temp results should always give a simplified time complexity of O(N), be that one of every temp or one temp multiple times.

### Task 6: Longest Consecutive Sequence Function

For this task the goal was to add every value from our vector into an unordered set, allowing us to utilize the count function. The count function returns a 0 or 1 which for our use case allows us to see if a value exists. Since we only need to return the longest sequence and not the actual values we can just verify if the next value in the sequence exist which is utilized in our (i + len) line. We also take care of niche cases, such as making sure the number we are starting at is indeed the first in the sequence, if it is not, or if a value exists that is 1 less than it, we need to move on to our next iteration of the for loop as we are not at the beginning, if our sequence is longer than our prior tracked one we simply reassign our tracked sequence to the new longest one, again using max(). Each value is visited at most twice, once when skipped for not being a starting point and once during the while loop of the sequences actual start, which allows for linear time complexity. By using loops in this way we are able to maintain the desired O(N) time complexity.